Privacy Amendment (Public Health 
Contact Information) Act 2020
Authorised Version C2020A00044
94A  Simplified outline of this Part
There are several serious offences relating to COVID app data and 
COVIDSafe. They deal with:
•  non-permitted collection, use or disclosure relating to COVID 
app data; and
•  uploading COVID app data without consent; and
•  retaining or disclosing uploaded data outside Australia; and
•  decrypting encrypted COVID app data; and
•  requiring participation in relation to COVIDSafe.
Other specific obligations relate to deletion of data and what is to 
happen after the COVIDSafe data period has ended (as determined 
by the Health Minister).
The general privacy law provided by this Act is applied to the 
requirements of this Part, in particular by:
•  ensuring that COVID app data is taken to be personal 
information and breaches of this Part are interferences with 
privacy; and
•  enhancing the Commissioner’s role in dealing with eligible 
data breaches, making assessments and conducting 
investigations in relation to this Part; and
•  enabling the Commissioner to refer matters to, and share 
information or documents with, State or Territory privacy 
authorities; and
•  providing for this Act to apply to State or Territory health 
authorities in relation to COVID app data.
This Part imposes on State or Territory health authorities the Act’s 
rules and privacy protections, and Commonwealth oversight, in 
relation to COVID app data, as Commonwealth property that those 
authorities receive.
This Part also cancels the effect of Australian laws that are 
inconsistent with the prohibitions in this Part.

94B  Object of this Part
The object of this Part is to assist in preventing and controlling the 
entry, emergence, establishment or spread of the coronavirus 
known as COVID-19 into Australia or any part of Australia by 
providing stronger privacy protections for COVID app data and 
COVIDSafe users in order to:
(a)  encourage public acceptance and uptake of COVIDSafe; and
(b)  enable faster and more effective contact tracing.

94C  Constitutional basis of this Part
Principal constitutional basis
(1)  This Part relies on the Commonwealth’s legislative powers with 
respect to matters that are peculiarly adapted to the government of 
a nation and cannot otherwise be carried on for the benefit of the 
nation.
Additional operation of this Part
(2)  In addition to subsection (1), this Part also has effect as provided 
by subsections (3) to (5).
(3)  This Part also has effect as if a reference in this Part to COVID app 
data were expressly confined to a reference to COVID app data 
that was collected or generated for the purposes of quarantine
(within the meaning of paragraph 51(ix) of the Constitution).
(4)  This Part also has effect as if a reference in this Part to COVID app 
data were expressly confined to a reference to COVID app data 
that was collected or generated using a service of a kind to which 
paragraph 51(v) of the Constitution applies (postal, telegraphic, 
telephonic and other like services).
(5)  This Part also has effect as if it were expressly confined to giving 
effect to Australia’s obligations under the International Covenant 
on Civil and Political Rights done at New York on 16 December 
1966 ([1980] ATS 23), and in particular Article 17 of the 
Covenant, in relation to COVID app data.
Note:  The Covenant is set out in Australian Treaty Series 1980 No. 23 
([1980] ATS 23) and could in 2020 be viewed in the Australian 
Treaties Library on the AustLII website (www.austlii.edu.au).