94Y  Determining the end of the COVIDSafe data period
(1)  Subject to subsection (2), the Health Minister must, by notifiable 
instrument, determine a day if the Health Minister is satisfied that,
by that day, use of COVIDSafe:
(a)  is no longer required to prevent or control; or
(b)  is no longer likely to be effective in preventing or 
controlling;
the entry, emergence, establishment or spread of the coronavirus 
known as COVID-19 into Australia or any part of Australia.
(2)  The Health Minister must not make a determination under 
subsection (1) unless the Health Minister has consulted, or 
considered recommendations from, the Commonwealth Chief 
Medical Officer or the Australian Health Protection Principal 
Committee.
(3)  The Commonwealth Chief Medical Officer or the Australian 
Health Protection Principal Committee may recommend to the 
Health Minister that the Health Minister make a determination 
under subsection (1).

94Z  Agencies may be determined to be data store administrator
(1)  The Secretary of the Health Department may, by notifiable 
instrument, determine that a particular agency is the data store 
administrator for the purposes of one or more provisions of this 
Part specified in the determination.
(2)  The determination may limit the extent to which the agency is the 
data store administrator for those purposes.
(3)  The Secretary of the Health Department must not determine under 
subsection (1) that any of the following is the data store 
administrator:
(a)  an enforcement body mentioned in paragraph (a) to (ea) of 
the definition of enforcement body in subsection 6(1);
(b)  an intelligence agency;
(c)  the Australian Geospatial-Intelligence Organisation;
(d)  the Defence Intelligence Organisation.

94ZA  Reports on operation and effectiveness of COVIDSafe and the 
National COVIDSafe Data Store
(1)  The Health Minister must, as soon as practicable after:
(a)  the end of the 6 month period starting on the commencement 
of this Part; and
(b)  the end of each subsequent 6 month period (if any) starting 
on or before the day determined under subsection 94Y(1);
cause a report to be prepared on the operation and effectiveness of 
COVIDSafe and the National COVIDSafe Data Store during that 6 
month period.
Note:  Section 94D prevents the inclusion of COVID app data in the report. 
It would not be a permitted collection, use or disclosure under 
subsection 94D(2).
(2)  If the day determined under subsection 94Y(1) occurs during the 6 
month period starting on the commencement of this Part, the report 
under subsection (1) of this section relating to that period must be 
prepared within 3 months after that day.
(3)  The Health Minister must cause copies of a report prepared under 
subsection (1) to be laid before each House of the Parliament 
within 15 sitting days of that House after the completion of the 
preparation of the report.

94ZB  Reports by the Commissioner
(1)  The Commissioner must, as soon as practicable after:
(a)  the end of the 6 month period starting on the commencement 
of this Part; and
(b)  the end of each subsequent 6 month period (if any) starting 
on or before the day determined under subsection 94Y(1);
cause a report to be prepared on the performance of the 
Commissioner’s functions, and the exercise of the Commissioner’s 
powers, under or in relation to this Part during the period.
Note:  Section 94D prevents the inclusion of COVID app data in the report. 
It would not be a permitted collection, use or disclosure under 
subsection 94D(2).
(2)  If the day determined under subsection 94Y(1) occurs during the 6 
month period starting on the commencement of this Part, the report 
under subsection (1) of this section relating to that period must be 
prepared within 3 months after that day.
(3)  The Commissioner must publish a report prepared under 
subsection (1) on the Commissioner’s website.
(4)  This section does not affect the matters that section 30 of the 
Australian Information Commissioner Act 2010 requires the 
Commissioner to include in an annual report.

94ZC  COVID app data remains property of the Commonwealth
COVID app data is the property of the Commonwealth, and 
remains the property of the Commonwealth even after it is 
disclosed to, or used by:
(a)  a State or Territory health authority; or
(b)  any other person or body (other than the Commonwealth or
an authority of the Commonwealth).

94ZD  Operation of other laws
(1)  This section cancels the effect of a provision of any Australian law
(other than this Part) that, but for this section, would have the 
effect of permitting or requiring conduct, or an omission to act, that 
would otherwise be prohibited under this Part.
(2)  However, the cancellation does not apply to a provision of an Act 
if the provision:
(a)  commences after this Part commences; and
(b)  expressly permits or requires the conduct or omission despite 
the provisions of this Part.