94E  COVID app data on communication devices
A person commits an offence if:
(a)  the person uploads, or causes to be uploaded, data from a 
communication device to the National COVIDSafe Data 
Store; and
(b)  the data is COVID app data; and
(c)  consent to the upload has not been given by:
(i)  the COVIDSafe user in relation to that device; or
(ii)  if the COVIDSafe user is unable to give consent—a 
parent, guardian or carer of the COVIDSafe user; or
(iii)  if the COVIDSafe user has requested a parent, guardian 
or carer of the COVIDSafe user to act on the 
COVIDSafe user’s behalf—that parent, guardian or 
carer.
Penalty:  Imprisonment for 5 years or 300 penalty units, or both.

94F  COVID app data in the National COVIDSafe Data Store
(1)  A person commits an offence if:
(a)  the person retains data on a database outside Australia; and
(b)  the data is COVID app data that has been uploaded from a 
communication device to the National COVIDSafe Data 
Store.
Penalty:  Imprisonment for 5 years or 300 penalty units, or both.
(2)  A person commits an offence if:
(a)  the person discloses data to another person who is outside 
Australia; and
(b)  the data is COVID app data that has been uploaded from a 
communication device to the National COVIDSafe Data 
Store; and
(c)  the person is not a person who:
(i)  is employed by, or in the service of, a State or Territory 
health authority; and
(ii)  discloses the data for the purpose of, and only to the 
extent required for the purpose of, undertaking contact 
tracing.
Penalty:  Imprisonment for 5 years or 300 penalty units, or both.

94G  Decrypting COVID app data
A person commits an offence if:
(a)  the person decrypts encrypted data; and
(b)  the data is COVID app data that is stored on a 
communication device.
Penalty:  Imprisonment for 5 years or 300 penalty units, or both.

94H  Requiring the use of COVIDSafe
(1)  A person commits an offence if the person requires another person
to:
(a)  download COVIDSafe to a communication device; or
(b)  have COVIDSafe in operation on a communication device; 
or
(c)  consent to uploading COVID app data from a communication 
device to the National COVIDSafe Data Store.
Penalty:  Imprisonment for 5 years or 300 penalty units, or both.
(2)  A person commits an offence if the person:
(a)  refuses to enter into, or continue, a contract or arrangement 
with another person (including a contract of employment); or
(b)  takes adverse action (within the meaning of the Fair Work 
Act 2009) against another person; or
(c)  refuses to allow another person to enter:
(i)  premises that are otherwise accessible to the public; or
(ii)  premises that the other person has a right to enter; or
(d)  refuses to allow another person to participate in an activity; 
or
(e)  refuses to receive goods or services from another person, or 
insists on providing less monetary consideration for the 
goods or services; or
(f)  refuses to provide goods or services to another person, or 
insists on receiving more monetary consideration for the 
goods or services;
on the ground that, or on grounds that include the ground that, the 
other person:
(g)  has not downloaded COVIDSafe to a communication device; 
or
(h)  does not have COVIDSafe in operation on a communication 
device; or
(i)  has not consented to uploading COVID app data from a 
communication device to the National COVIDSafe Data 
Store.
Penalty:  Imprisonment for 5 years or 300 penalty units, or both.
(3)  To avoid doubt:
(a)  subsection (2) is a workplace law for the purposes of the Fair 
Work Act 2009; and
(b)  the benefit that the other person derives because of an 
obligation of the person under subsection (2) is a workplace 
right within the meaning of Part 3-1 of that Act.